[Term Entry] JavaScript Storage .getItem(key) - close #2694 (#2715)
Codecademy/docs: content/javascript/concepts/storage/terms/getItem/getItem.md

---
Title: '.getItem(key)'
Description: 'Returns the value of the key on the given data item.'
Subjects: 
  - 'Web Development'
  - 'Computer Science'
Tags: 
  - 'APIs'
  - 'Data'
  - 'Methods'
  - 'Storage'
  - 'Values'
CatalogContent: 
  - 'introduction-to-javascript'
  - 'paths/front-end-engineer-career-path'
---

The **`.getItem()`** method takes a key as an argument and returns the associated value. If the key is not present in the `Storage` object, it returns `null`.

The `Storage` Object, which can be either a `localStorage` object or a `sessionStorage` object.

## Syntax

```pseudo
localStorage.getItem(keyName)

sessionStorage.getItem(keyName)
```

The `keyName` parameter is required and it's a string containing the name of the key you want to retrieve the value of.

> **Note:** The `Storage.length` property can be used to test whether the storage object is empty or not.

## Example

Get the value of the specified local storage item:

> ```codebyte/javascript

Reviewer: There are still changes missing here. The block is still set as a codebyte and the code should be revised to be a more complete example that could be conceivably used as is, something like:
localStorage.setItem("Seuss", "Green Eggs and Ham")
console.log(localStorage.getItem("Seuss")

And the output should be in a separate ```shell block

---
Title: '.getItem(key)'

> Description: 'Returns the value of the key of the data item passed as an argument or null if it does not exist, from the storage object'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Description: 'Returns the value of the key on the given data item.'
```

Subjects: 
  - 'Web Development'
  - 'Computer Science'
Tags: 
  - 'APIs'
  - 'Data'
  - 'Methods'

>   - 'Objects'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Reviewer: we limit tags to 5 items

  - 'Storage'
  - 'Values'
CatalogContent: 

>   - 'user-authentication-authorization-express/modules/session-authentication-express/cheatsheet'
>   - 'user-authentication-authorization-express'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Reviewer: catalog content should only contain two items

>   - 'paths/securing-express-applications'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - 'introduction-to-javascript'
```

>   - 'paths/back-end-engineer-career-path'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - 'paths/front-end-engineer-career-path'
```

---

> The **.getItem()** method takes the key of the data item as an argument and returns the value of the data if it is in the `Storage` object, otherwise it returns `null`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The **`.getItem()`** method takes a key as an argument and returns the associated value. If the key is not present in the `Storage` object, it returns `null`.
```

The `Storage` Object, which can be either a `localStorage` object or a `sessionStorage` object.

## Syntax

> ```pseudo

Reviewer: the two formats can be consolidated into one block

> ```javascript

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```pseudo
```
use pseudo tags for syntax

localStorage.getItem(keyName)
```

> or
> ```javascript

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
or

```pseudo
```

sessionStorage.getItem(keyName)
```

The `keyName` parameter is required and it's a string containing the name of the key you want to retrieve the value of.

> > You could also use `Storage.length` to test whether the storage object is empty or not.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> **Note:** The `Storage.length` property can be used to test whether the storage object is empty or not.
```

> ## Codebyte Example

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Example
```

Reviewer: this function is not currently supported by Codecademy's compiler. Please reframe this example as a "standard" example with an output in a ```shell block

---
Title: '.getItem(key)'
Description: 'Returns the value of the key on the given data item.'
Subjects:
  - 'Web Development'
  - 'Computer Science'
Tags:
  - 'APIs'
  - 'Data'
  - 'Methods'
  - 'Storage'
  - 'Values'
CatalogContent:
  - 'introduction-to-javascript'
  - 'paths/front-end-engineer-career-path'
---

The **`.getItem()`** method takes a key as an argument and returns the associated value. If the key is not present in the `Storage` object, it returns `null`.

The `Storage` object can be either a `localStorage` object or a `sessionStorage` object.

## Syntax

```pseudo
localStorage.getItem(keyName)

sessionStorage.getItem(keyName)
```

> The `keyName` parameter is required and it's a string containing the name of the key you want to retrieve the value of.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The `keyName` parameter is required and it's a string containing the name of the key to retrieve the value of.
```
